There are news from the Milky Way
and dwarf galaxies:
It could be, we know what dark matter is.
I wouldnt have thought that,
you probably either
Dark matter: this is one of
dark chapter of astronomy, because ...
Although ... you know that
it´s there, that it must be there,
that there is an effect that can be measured,
but you do not know what it is.
Here again for all those who are not on a daily basis deal with the dark matter:
There are patterns of movement
of luminous matter, that's the stuff as you
and I, therefore, electrons, protons and neutrons,
you can even just understand
the movement patterns,
if there something is,
that does not radiate, but is heavy.
A typical example is the
Rotation curve of a galaxy like our Milky Way.
Normally, so if you are far enough
away of the galaxy,
then this curve, the speed,
with which something rotates around the center,
should gradually decrease with radius.
This is called Keppler rotation.
For all those who wanna look for it with a search engine
- whose name must not be mentioned -: Keppler rotation.
That's what you expect when you
have a dominant source of gravity
and that moves to this dominant source of gravity,
so to speak, is only  test mass.
And of course that´s a gas cloud, for example,
which is far enough away from the center of a galaxy.
So that should at its rate of rotation,
the further it is away from the galaxy,
get slower.
And what is to measure?
Exactly the opposite!
Will not slow down!
The rotation speed remains
from a certain radius at a high level.
That's even understandable,
this kind of high rotational speed,
if anything the matter, to ...
So when something accelerates the matter ...
it must be a ...
a Halo - call the astronomers that - act.
So to create an atmosphere
of matter which is not visible at all,
do not even do one thing above all,
namely to absorb radiation.
Could well be dust, for example,
So very fine dust and which would virtually
as accelerate the luminous matter with a ... with its mass. But is not!
Nope, no dust!
You can practically see the galaxy so
you can even see very distant galaxies as they are.
This is clearly a form of matter,
which in no way
electromagnetically interacts.
So, neither the radiation
absorbed nor emitted. And that is the dark matter! I want to take another example,
then really aground top form:
This is the hot gas around galaxies
Hot gas is natural
hot ...  gas, accurate, and hot gas has a tendency to disappear actually.
If you turn thinks to it,
so you water is boiling on the stove,
then one can see, how the steam disappears. Indeed! Because temperature has something to do with
kinetic, ie with
kinetic energy. And actually the hot gas surrounding large galaxies should already be gone, because the hot gas is so hot
that it is so quickly, that it actually would long ago have to be gone.
But it is not going away! And? Why is that?
It is because the gravitational potential
is made not only by the luminous matter, but above all by the dark matter.
The ... the one that pushes so deep, now time for all
Specialists of general relativity,
in the space-time that the hot gas does not come out. Finally, we know that there are dark matter and in the clearest of course, by the ...
... gravitational lens effect of dark matter. Yes.
Yes, it's like this, that the presence of mass so bends the light paths, again for all those engaged in the general theory of relativity
know that know the course.
That's the general theory of relativity!
That the presence of masses changes the geometry and on the surface of this space-time,
since moving so happens to the light.
So, if dark matter should be there, then ...
... the light paths would indeed bend.
It would have to come to the gravitational lens effect
and doing it all along. It is even so today,
that from the distribution of
Gravitational lenses in the sky, so the warped images of galaxies, can infer the distribution of dark matter.
So we know an awful lot about dark matter,
only one we do not know: What does it consist?
We know it has to ...
... it must be to ...
... cold ...
... Dark Matter act.
is called "cold", the particles of which it consists,
which must be difficult, because heavy particles,
as we all know, dealing with the
Relativity know and those are probably all now ...
Yes, that is particles that have 'ne mass that can not move at the speed of light.
And everything that is smaller than the speed of light,
this can be described as quasi "cold".
If 'n particles having
or to move the speed of light close,
then the hot dark matter would be.
Why cold? Why cold? Now,
only cold dark matter can clump so,
So you can then come together under the gravitational interaction,
they must indeed have. It may indeed have only no electromagnetic interaction.
So under their own gravity, they may collapse and therefore they are now so small
generates gravitational potentials ... Why?
Well, because there are dwarf galaxies.
Dwarf galaxies are galaxies that are smaller than normal galaxies, so they are called dwarf galaxies.
So, so you hinkriegt such small, small galaxies, dark matter must
can condense, it must
can come together. And she could not if she had incredibly high speeds.
Scary high speeds we need
for galaxy clusters, for large,
for ... But here at the dwarf galaxies,
there are things very different and precisely in the dwarf galaxy and in the Milky Way
has but now more recently the evidence, so we say, reinforces the evidence, it could actually
the particles to be found, from which the cold dark matter. These are the so-called ...
... I say the time now: Neutralinos.
I mean, neutrinos are known already from our world from our normal world.
Those are relatively light particles produced in nuclear reactions such as in the sun.
As I always like to say here by our,
so many neutrinos fly so by my thumbnail per second from the sun
like the Milky Way star has,
just under 100 billion.
Nee, on Neutralinos as it comes to particles
coming from a completely different era of the cosmos.
Back then...
... it was the year,
yes, you not once wrote 'n years, you do not even wrote a sec, you do not even wrote' ne thousandths or 'ne hundred thousandth of a second,
you wrote a trillionth part of a second!
A nanosecond, a trillionth of a second!
At that time the Neutralinos emerged.
In a very early stage in the cosmos than the symmetry which, in the early cosmos was equality so high
that you do not even between matter particles
could differ and force particles.
We can today.
There are four forces and these four forces include four power brokers. One of them is the photon,
another is the ...
... are the particles that mediate the strong force in 'NEM nucleus together.
But above all, there's the particles that make up matter. And the Neutralinos come from
a time when you do not between
Fermions - these are the particles that make up the material - and bosons, which are the particles,
mediate the forces
could differ. This is called the theory:
Supersymmetry. At the very beginning of the cosmos.
And when the universe was getting colder,
since the Neutralinos would quasi
fallen like so snow crystals from the cosmic evolution.
And these Neutralinos,
that would be the ideal candidate, according to the theory,
for the dark matter. For the cold dark matter.
They were about 100, maybe 200 times heavier than protons.
And ... they were their own antiparticles and could destroy. If they would destroy, then, would this thing occur?
Of course, all ...
... expert on quantum electrodynamics and the theory of relativity know when particles annihilate each other, the result is gamma radiation.
And here we are with today's observations:
There is a surplus
of gamma radiation in the Milky Way
and a surplus
of gamma radiation in a dwarf galaxy
and an excess of gamma radiation
in a spectrometer in the international,
on the International Space Station.
All three together now suggest the following scenario:
that actually Neutralinos to
a considerable extent,
as the saying goes, annihilate.
This is nothing indecent. So, they destry themselves.
This produces gamma radiation.
And how do you know that?
Well, you summed together in a sense that gamma sources we know because in the Milky Way?
There's so few:
There's the supernova remnants, then there is the
the neutron star, so those are stellar remnants,
above all, produce gamma radiation. There are also black holes that produce gamma rays.
That is, you know all these point sources. If they are then ausaddiert,
one realizes we see in the Milky Way
too much gamma radiation. Now one could say: Well, maybe you
not yet discovered one or the other or population or population of neutron stars.
That's why we look in dwarf galaxies.
And since it is particularly interesting,
because there's not that many neutron stars.
And there you will find now also
an excess of gamma radiation.
And that, together with the test result on the International Space Station,
could mean that we can say afterwards:
We have been here as at that time the Neutralinos, the particles of dark matter,
from which the dark matter consists build.
That would be a real breakthrough!
It condense the information that we riddle the dark side of the universe
actually dissolve. I think it's great!
I have to say honestly. Wow!